Early naturalists believed two species of beaver lived in North America: dam beavers and bank beavers. The bank species was thought to resemble the muskrat in behavior, living in burrows or lodges and unable to build dams. In fact, dams are primarily a strategy for dealing with annual variations in water levels. If water levels fall in summer, as they do in most of North America, then beavers lodge entrances may be exposed. With stabilized water levels, their homes are much safer. Along deep rivers, where bank beavers are found, this problem seldom arises. But these beavers do know how to build dams, and do so if the need arises, as may occur if they are forced to relocate after felling and consuming all nearby trees.

1.	The passage provides support for which of the following statements about beaver dams?  A. One important function of these dams is to protect beavers homes. 

B. Most are built prior to burrow construction. C. They are found mostly along deep rivers. 

D. They are routinely abandoned as nearby forests are depleted. E. They mainly protect beavers from rising water levels.

2.	The passage implies which of the following about beavers? 

A. Bank beavers are unable to successfully compete with dam beavers when resources become scarce. 

B. Differences in dam-building behavior among beavers do not necessarily imply multiple beaver species. 

C. Building dams eventually causes beavers to deplete nearby resources. 

D. When conditions permit, beavers are more likely to build dams than burrows or lodges.  E. In beavers, dam-building is an acquired rather than an innate skill.

3.	The passage provides support for which of the following statements about beaver dams? A. One important function of these dams is to protect beavers’ homes.

B. They are less likely to be found along deep rivers.

C. They are routinely abandoned before nearby forests are depleted.

4.	It can be inferred from the passage that early naturalists considered which of the following criteria when classifying beavers?

A. The genetic similarity of beavers and muskrats B. The propensity of beavers to relocate
C. The depth of water beavers occupied D. Beavers’ dam-building capabilities
E. Beavers’ degree of exposure to danger
