Until around 1930 few United States Civil War historians paid much attention to Southerners who opposed the 1861-1865 secession from the United States by a confederacy of Southern states. Southern historians clung instead to a notion of the South’s unanimity in the face of Northern aggression. Only when scholars such as Lonn decided to examine this side of the war did historian of the Confederacy begin to recognize the existence of Southerners loyal to the Union (Unionists). While these early historians of Southern dissent broke new ground, they also reproduced Confederate authoritie’s negative view of loyalists as shady characters driven by dubious motives. Even Tatum, who took a largely sympathetic attitude toward loyalists, tended to lump them into nebulous categories, offering broad generalizations that ignored the particulars of Unionists’ identities and experiences.

 

This early -twentieth- century historiography nonetheless represented the leading research on dissent in the South until the 1960s and 1970s. Spurred by the advent of social historical methods, a new generation of historians found Unionists interesting as manifestations of the Confederacy’s internal weaknesses. Focusing on the Appalachian Mountain and upper South regions of the Confederacy, these scholars argued that there was a profound divide among Southern Whites between those who benefited economically from slave-run plantations and those who did not. One such historian was Escott, who emphasized regional and economic conflict among Southerners. Escott cast Unionists and other dissenters as antiplanter mountaineers who could not, by reason of economic and social alienation, identify with the proslavery Southern cause. This theme has heavily influenced the work of subsequent scholars, who commonly place Unionists at the extreme end of a continuum of class-based Confederate disaffection that was ultimately responsible for the South’s collapse. Because the driving force behind such inquiries into loyalist history has been a desire to explain Confederate ideology, politics, and defeat, emphasis has been placed on the ways loyalist

Southerners diverged from the political and economic mainstream of Confederate nationalism.

 

Only recently have some Civil War historians begun to make Unionists and their experiences, rather than the Confederate state, the center of inquiry. These scholars have done intensive community and local studies of dissenting groups that take into account a range of social and cultural, as well as military and political, factors at work on the Southern home front. Hoping to better understand who remained loyal to the Union during the war, these historians have sought to explain the Civil War’s underlying character, dimensions, and impact in particular counties or towns, especially in the upper South and Appalachia. This relatively new trend has stressed the particular, delved into the complexities of political allegiances on the home front, and, as Sutherland notes, highlighted “the gritty experience of real people”.

1. The primary purpose of the passage is to 

A. summarize a particular debate among historians 

B. trace the evolution of a particular area of historical study 

C. challenge a common misconception about a particular historical period  D. identify flaws in a particular approach to the study of a historical subject

E. explain why a particular historical question has received little scholarly attention

2.	The passage suggests that “some Civil War historians”（Paragraph 3） would probably agree with which of the following statements about Southern Unionists? 

A. Their economic circumstances were more significant than their social and cultural identities in determining their dissent from the Confederate cause.

B. Their significant to historians lies mainly in what their actions reveal about the mainstream of Confederate nationalism from which they departed 

C. Their political allegiance must be understood in relation to specific local factors that affected their lives during the Civil War period

D. They were more likely to be from areas outside the upper South and Appalachia than were supporter of the Confederate cause 

E. They were more likely to be from economically priviliged groups than were supporters of the Confederate cause.

3.	The passage suggests which of the following about histories of the Civil War written before 1930? 

A. Some took a fairly sympathetic view of Southern Unionists. 

B. Interest in these histories has been revived by the work of recent historians C. Most offered little analysis of the lives and motives of Southern Unionists.

D. Many tended to group Southern Unionists into broad categories that obscured their differences.

E. Few accepted the idea that the South was politically unified during the Civil War.

4.	Which of the following best describes the function of the highlighted sentence? 

A. It challenges a common misconception about the motives driving an influential group of Civil War historians.

B. It describes a major contribution of the Civil War historians of the 1960s and 1970s that inspired the next generation of scholars. 

C. It calls attention to aspects of the Confederate cause that were alienating to those Southerners who remained loyal to the Union.

D. It identifies a tendency in Civil War scholarship that more recent scholarship has moved away from. 

E. It explains how ideological and political aspects of the Confederacy loyalist Southerners to reject the Confederate cause.
